My name is Emmanuel and I am
an offensive security
engineer at Google.
For offensive security,
my job is to simulate
adversaries and threats
that are targeting
various companies and I
look at defending how
we can protect Google's
infrastructure.
I make it harder to hack
Google by actually
hacking Google.
The technical skills that I
use is a lot of programming,
as well as learning about
operational and
platform security.
Knowing how these
computers work,
what is under the hood,
and understanding the components
that create this infrastructure.
An entry-level
cybersecurity analyst would
look at using command lines,
log parsing, and
network traffic
analysis in their
everyday scope of work.
Command line allows
you to interact
with various levels of
your operating system,
whether it's the
low-level things
like the memory and the kernel,
or if it's high-level
things like
the applications
and the programs
that you're running
on your computer.
With log parsing,
they're going to be
times where you
may need to figure
out and debug what is
going on in your program
or application and
these logs are
there to help you
and support you in
finding the root issue and
then resolve it from there.
With this network
traffic analysis,
there may be times where
you need to figure
out why is my
Internet going slow?
Why is traffic not
being routed to the
appropriate destination?
What can I do to
ensure that my network
is up and running?
Network traffic analysis is
looking at network across
various application
and network layers
and seeing what that
traffic is doing,
how we can secure that traffic,
as well as identify any
vulnerabilities and concerns.
In the contexts for
me, for security,
I look at: are passwords being
leaked in the traffic that's
being sent across the network?
Are infrastructures
being secured?
Are firewalls being readily
configured and
configured safely?
One skill that
has continued to
grow with me in my current role
has been communicating
effectively
to product teams, engineers,
and identifying an issue
that is influencing or
affecting the business, and
communicating to those teams
effectively to fix it.
Being able to take
on these many hats
and explain things with the
right business approach to
things to ensure that
the issues that I
do find in my work are
identified but there
are also fixed.
My advice to folks
who are taking
this certificate would take
things apart, feel
uncomfortable,
learn and grow and find
opportunities to learn
and understand how
things work and
that skill set will
benefit you for the
remainder of your journey.